README.md, before:

# Hangman Python Game

Welcome to the Hangman Python Game! This is a simple command-line implementation of the classic Hangman game where players guess letters to uncover a hidden word.

## Features

- **Word Selection**: Randomly selects a word from a predefined list.
- **User Interaction**: Prompts users to guess letters, providing feedback on each guess.
- **Hangman Display**: Visually represents the hangman's current state using ASCII art, updating with each incorrect guess.
- **Game State Management**: Tracks guessed letters, remaining attempts, and determines win/loss conditions.
- **High Scores**: Tracks and stores high scores in a JSON file.

## How to Play

1. **Clone the Repository**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/jlchafardet/hangman-python.git
    ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory**:

    ```bash
    cd hangman-python
    ```

3. **Run the Game**:

    ```bash
    python hangman.py
    ```

4. **Guess Letters**: Follow the on-screen prompts to guess letters and try to uncover the hidden word before the hangman is fully drawn.

## Recommendations for Improving the Hangman Python Game

## To enhance your Hangman game and provide a more engaging experience for players, consider implementing the following improvements

## 1. **Expand the Word List**

- ~~**Diverse Vocabulary**: Incorporate a larger and more diverse set of words to increase the game's challenge and replayability.~~
- **Word Categories**: Organize words into categories (e.g., animals, countries, technology) and allow players to choose a category before starting the game.
- **External Word Sources**: Utilize external APIs or word lists from online sources to dynamically fetch words, ensuring a vast and varied selection.

## 2. **Enhance Input Validation**

- ~~**Single Letter Enforcement**: Ensure that the player inputs only single alphabetic characters. Reject multiple letters or non-alphabetic inputs with appropriate error messages.~~
- ~~**Case Insensitivity**: Handle input without case sensitivity, allowing players to enter letters in either uppercase or lowercase without issues.~~
- ~~**Duplicate Guess Handling**: Improve feedback for repeated guesses by providing more informative messages or hints.~~

## 3. **Persist Game State**

- **Save and Load Feature**: Allow players to save their current game state and resume later. This requires storing essential game data (e.g., word, guessed letters, remaining tries) in a file or database.
- ~~**High Scores**: Implement a high score tracking system that records players' best performances, encouraging competition and replayability.~~

## 4. **Develop a User Interface (UI)**

- **Graphical User Interface (GUI)**: Transition from a command-line interface to a GUI using libraries like `tkinter`, `pygame`, or `PyQt`. A GUI can provide a more interactive and visually appealing experience.
- **Web-Based Interface**: Create a web version of the game using frameworks like Flask or Django, allowing players to enjoy Hangman directly in their browsers.

## 5. **Introduce Multiplayer Mode**

- **Cooperative Play**: Allow multiple players to collaborate in guessing the word, taking turns or working together to uncover letters.
- **Competitive Play**: Implement a competitive mode where players take turns guessing letters, with each correct guess earning points or other rewards.

## 6. **Add Difficulty Levels**

- **Varying Challenges**: Introduce multiple difficulty levels (e.g., Easy, Medium, Hard) that affect factors such as the length of the word, the number of allowed incorrect guesses, or the complexity of the words.
- **Timed Challenges**: Incorporate time-based challenges where players must guess the word within a certain timeframe, adding urgency to the gameplay.

## 7. **Improve Hangman Display**

- **Animated Graphics**: Enhance the visual representation of the hangman with animations that progress smoothly as the player makes incorrect guesses.
- ~~**Color Coding**: Use colors to differentiate between correct and incorrect guesses, making the game more visually engaging and easier to follow.~~

## 8. **Implement a Scoring System**

- **Points Allocation**: Assign points for each correct guess and deduct points for incorrect ones. This adds a layer of strategy as players aim to maximize their scores.
- **Leaderboard**: Create a leaderboard that displays high scores, fostering a sense of competition among players.

## 9. **Refactor and Modularize Code**

- **Code Organization**: Break down the code into multiple modules or classes to improve readability, maintainability, and scalability.
- **Reusability**: Encapsulate functionalities (e.g., word selection, input handling, display rendering) into separate functions or classes, promoting code reuse.

## 10. **Add Unit Tests**

- **Testing Framework**: Utilize Python's `unittest` or `pytest` frameworks to write tests that ensure each component of the game works as intended.
- **Automated Testing**: Implement continuous integration (CI) to automatically run tests whenever changes are made, ensuring the game's reliability over time.

## 11. **Enhance User Experience**

- **Sound Effects**: Add audio feedback for correct and incorrect guesses, enhancing the immersive experience.
- **Hints System**: Provide optional hints that players can use to reveal certain letters or get clues about the word.
- **Responsive Design**: If transitioning to a GUI or web interface, ensure that the design is responsive and adapts well to different screen sizes and devices.

## 12. **Internationalization and Localization**

- **Multiple Languages**: Support multiple languages by translating the user interface and word lists, making the game accessible to a broader audience.
- **Unicode Support**: Ensure that the game correctly handles Unicode characters, allowing for words from various languages with special characters.

## 13. **Documentation and Help**

- **In-Game Instructions**: Provide clear instructions and guidance within the game to help new players understand how to play.
- **Comprehensive Documentation**: Maintain detailed documentation for the codebase, facilitating contributions from other developers and aiding future maintenance.

## 14. **Performance Optimization**

- **Efficient Algorithms**: Review and optimize algorithms to ensure the game runs smoothly, especially when scaling up features like large word lists or multiplayer modes.
- **Resource Management**: Ensure that resources (e.g., memory, file handles) are properly managed to prevent leaks and ensure optimal performance.

---

Implementing these recommendations will not only improve the functionality and user experience of your Hangman game but also make the codebase more robust, maintainable, and scalable for future developments.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

*Happy Coding!* :smile:

Commit message:

docs: add replayability substep to Enhance User Experience in README.md
- Added a new substep under "Enhance User Experience" to ask the player if they want to play again.

README.md, after:

# Hangman Python Game

Welcome to the Hangman Python Game! This is a simple command-line implementation of the classic Hangman game where players guess letters to uncover a hidden word.

## Features

- **Word Selection**: Randomly selects a word from a predefined list.
- **User Interaction**: Prompts users to guess letters, providing feedback on each guess.
- **Hangman Display**: Visually represents the hangman's current state using ASCII art, updating with each incorrect guess.
- **Game State Management**: Tracks guessed letters, remaining attempts, and determines win/loss conditions.
- **High Scores**: Tracks and stores high scores in a JSON file.

## How to Play

1. **Clone the Repository**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/jlchafardet/hangman-python.git
    ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory**:

    ```bash
    cd hangman-python
    ```

3. **Run the Game**:

    ```bash
    python hangman.py
    ```

4. **Guess Letters**: Follow the on-screen prompts to guess letters and try to uncover the hidden word before the hangman is fully drawn.

## Recommendations for Improving the Hangman Python Game

## To enhance your Hangman game and provide a more engaging experience for players, consider implementing the following improvements

## 1. **Expand the Word List**

- ~~**Diverse Vocabulary**: Incorporate a larger and more diverse set of words to increase the game's challenge and replayability.~~
- **Word Categories**: Organize words into categories (e.g., animals, countries, technology) and allow players to choose a category before starting the game.
- **External Word Sources**: Utilize external APIs or word lists from online sources to dynamically fetch words, ensuring a vast and varied selection.

## 2. **Enhance Input Validation**

- ~~**Single Letter Enforcement**: Ensure that the player inputs only single alphabetic characters. Reject multiple letters or non-alphabetic inputs with appropriate error messages.~~
- ~~**Case Insensitivity**: Handle input without case sensitivity, allowing players to enter letters in either uppercase or lowercase without issues.~~
- ~~**Duplicate Guess Handling**: Improve feedback for repeated guesses by providing more informative messages or hints.~~

## 3. **Persist Game State**

- **Save and Load Feature**: Allow players to save their current game state and resume later. This requires storing essential game data (e.g., word, guessed letters, remaining tries) in a file or database.
- ~~**High Scores**: Implement a high score tracking system that records players' best performances, encouraging competition and replayability.~~

## 4. **Develop a User Interface (UI)**

- **Graphical User Interface (GUI)**: Transition from a command-line interface to a GUI using libraries like `tkinter`, `pygame`, or `PyQt`. A GUI can provide a more interactive and visually appealing experience.
- **Web-Based Interface**: Create a web version of the game using frameworks like Flask or Django, allowing players to enjoy Hangman directly in their browsers.

## 5. **Introduce Multiplayer Mode**

- **Cooperative Play**: Allow multiple players to collaborate in guessing the word, taking turns or working together to uncover letters.
- **Competitive Play**: Implement a competitive mode where players take turns guessing letters, with each correct guess earning points or other rewards.

## 6. **Add Difficulty Levels**

- **Varying Challenges**: Introduce multiple difficulty levels (e.g., Easy, Medium, Hard) that affect factors such as the length of the word, the number of allowed incorrect guesses, or the complexity of the words.
- **Timed Challenges**: Incorporate time-based challenges where players must guess the word within a certain timeframe, adding urgency to the gameplay.

## 7. **Improve Hangman Display**

- **Animated Graphics**: Enhance the visual representation of the hangman with animations that progress smoothly as the player makes incorrect guesses.
- ~~**Color Coding**: Use colors to differentiate between correct and incorrect guesses, making the game more visually engaging and easier to follow.~~

## 8. **Implement a Scoring System**

- **Points Allocation**: Assign points for each correct guess and deduct points for incorrect ones. This adds a layer of strategy as players aim to maximize their scores.
- **Leaderboard**: Create a leaderboard that displays high scores, fostering a sense of competition among players.

## 9. **Refactor and Modularize Code**

- **Code Organization**: Break down the code into multiple modules or classes to improve readability, maintainability, and scalability.
- **Reusability**: Encapsulate functionalities (e.g., word selection, input handling, display rendering) into separate functions or classes, promoting code reuse.

## 10. **Add Unit Tests**

- **Testing Framework**: Utilize Python's `unittest` or `pytest` frameworks to write tests that ensure each component of the game works as intended.
- **Automated Testing**: Implement continuous integration (CI) to automatically run tests whenever changes are made, ensuring the game's reliability over time.

## 11. **Enhance User Experience**

- **Sound Effects**: Add audio feedback for correct and incorrect guesses, enhancing the immersive experience.
- **Hints System**: Provide optional hints that players can use to reveal certain letters or get clues about the word.
- **Responsive Design**: If transitioning to a GUI or web interface, ensure that the design is responsive and adapts well to different screen sizes and devices.
- **Replayability**: Ask the player if they want to play again.

## 12. **Internationalization and Localization**

- **Multiple Languages**: Support multiple languages by translating the user interface and word lists, making the game accessible to a broader audience.
- **Unicode Support**: Ensure that the game correctly handles Unicode characters, allowing for words from various languages with special characters.

## 13. **Documentation and Help**

- **In-Game Instructions**: Provide clear instructions and guidance within the game to help new players understand how to play.
- **Comprehensive Documentation**: Maintain detailed documentation for the codebase, facilitating contributions from other developers and aiding future maintenance.

## 14. **Performance Optimization**

- **Efficient Algorithms**: Review and optimize algorithms to ensure the game runs smoothly, especially when scaling up features like large word lists or multiplayer modes.
- **Resource Management**: Ensure that resources (e.g., memory, file handles) are properly managed to prevent leaks and ensure optimal performance.

---

Implementing these recommendations will not only improve the functionality and user experience of your Hangman game but also make the codebase more robust, maintainable, and scalable for future developments.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

*Happy Coding!* :smile:
